Computer & Git Bash

Go to your computer and open Git Bash.
Go to your terminal AWS configure.
It should have your keys, default region and output.
You need to have a key for authentication.
Make sure terraform is installed. Go to Git Bash and type in Terraform --version.
It will work even if your version isn't up to date.
Make a directory and cd into it and verify you're in the correct directory.
Go to documents and make a folder.
You can call it terraform or use the terraform folder that's already there. Whatever you name it. Don't you capital letters and it should be one name without any spaces.
Create a subfolder and give it a name.
When you're in the subfolder right click and go to show more options and then click on Open GitBash here.
In GitBash make a authentication file.
Type touch 0-off.tf
You'll see the same file appear in your subfolder.
This creates a terraform file.
You won't be able to do anything unless you authentication.
The first goal is to authenticate to AWS.
Nunber the files. The 0 file is the first file.
In GitBash type code . this will open Visual Studio Code.

Visual Studio Code 

When you open Visual Studio Code. You'll see the 0 file with nothing in it.
Fork Theo's repo with yours.
Go to Theo's repo click on 0-auth.tf and copy it.
Paste it inside your Visual Studio Code under the 0-auth.tf file that you need to open.
Save
If you want to copy all the file in Theo's repo.
Inside of the repo go go code and under HTTPS copy the url.

GitBash

Go to GitBash type git clone (url) and paste the url and hit enter.
There will be a new folder created in Visual Studio Code with all of the copied files.
Save 
In GitBash type in cat 0-auth.tf and enter to make sure that you have saved it.
Its mandatory that you save your terraform file before deploying.

Visual Studio Code 

Inside of Visual Studio Code at top of the page and click on view. 
Go to Terminal and it will go directly to the current folder that you're working in.
You type in ls to see that you have 2 things. Your terraform file and class folder.
To start terraform, type terraform --version 
This wiil show you have terraform installed.
To start terraform type terraform init
This wiil initialize terraform.
You'll notice another folder has been added.
Don't touch or do anything with these files.
Don't use PowerShell use GitBash 
Don't touch the .gitinore, .terraform. .terraform. lock.hcl files.