Console Home

Search bar type budgets

Services 
Billing and Cost Management 

Create a budget 

Choose budget type

Budget setup- Use a template 

Template- new
Monthly cost budget 

Budget name- put a name 

Enter your budget amount- Choose your amount 

Email recipients- an email address for important information you will get about budget 

Click on Create budget 

Creating EC2 Instance 

Search bar type in EC2 

Click on Security groups on the left side

Click on create security group 

Basic details 

Security group name- put a name

Description- put a name

VPC use default option 

Inbound rules (are for people that are outside of the VPC and they're trying to connect to something inside the VPC. Traffic coming into the VPC)

Click Add rule 

HTTP Source (anywhere IPv4)

SSH Source (anywhere IPv4)- it's a secure way to remotely connect to our EC2 Instance 

Outbound rules leave it as it is. (Thiis for traffic leaving the VPC 

Tags are optional 

Click on Create security group 

Check your Inbound rules 

You should see two Inbound rules 

Outbound rules 

You should see one outbound rules 

On the left side click on instances 

Click on launch Instances either button works 

Name and tags

Name- put a name

Skip application and os images 

Instance type 

t3.micro

Key pair (login)

When an EC2 Instance connect which through AWS. You don't actually need a key pair although it does use SSH.

You can also use a key pair to download a private key which is like a password that you can use and you can run SSH through your own command line on your computer.

Click on create key pair 

Key pair name

Key pair type-RSA 

Private key file format-pem

Create key pair 

Network settings- don't click on edit 

Network-Automatic default in the VPC don't have to do anything 

Subnet- No preference (Default subnet in any availability zone)

Auto-assign public IP-Enable 

Select existing security group

Common security groups choose one from the drop down menu 

Configure storage- don't touch 

Advanced details 

User data 

Put script in the box all the way at bottom of the screen 

Go through your Summary and check the list of information 

Click launch Instance

Click on instance ID 

When you have 3 status checks for your instance. Open a different tab to load the web page http://copy and paste your public DNS after the 2 slashes 

Go to connect 

EC2 Instance Connect 

Connect using public IP 

Click on the orange connect button 

You should see your page (black screen connected)

If you want to send a command to your EC2 Instance. Ping 8.8.8.8 is a good IP address. That's Google's DNS IP. You use control c to stop pinging.

Instance connect could be troubleshooting, issuing commands, deploy software, changing software and patching the operating system.

CREATE A TEMPLATE FROM INSTANCE 

Create a template 

Left side go to Instances 

Go to actions, image and templates, create template from Instance

Create lauch template 

Lauch template name and description 

Name the template - put a name

Template version description - put a name

Resource tags are optional 

Advanced details 

User data- your script should be already in the box below 

Click on create launch template 

Click on view launch templates 

Launch Instance from template during this process the screen will be automatically filling itself out. There will be nothing to edit.

EC2 

Instances- copy Public DNS. Paste http://public DNS link in a new tab to create your instance 


 

