Creating a cost budget 

Go to the search bar and type in budgets. Budgets are there to alert you in case you have some crazy costs. If you do the cost budget, then you get $20 extra in your AWS account.

Click on create budget.
(Budget setup) Use a template 
Templates- Monthly cost budget 
Budget name- 
Enter your budgeted amount 
If you go above your cost amount for the month, it's going to send you an alert. 

Email recipients- for your alerts
At the bottom right hand corner click on create budget.

Regions And Availability Zones 

A region is an area where multiple data
centers for a compute service are located. All cloud all public clouds have this system.

You can tell or can basically
figure out how an area is doing. Like how their infrastructure is by their if they have an availability zone or not. It's kind of a big thing. 

You can choose which region you want to use. For the most part, it's the same price or the price is negligible. If you wish to add a region you can you can just request that it is added. For example Asia Pacific Thailand. So you can click on that. We got to get this right and click on enable to enable the region.

At work they might be doing work in
certain countries. If that's true, then they want to have a region which is closer to their customers and you might have to enable that region. You have to think where are your customers and can you put your server or your services as close to your customers as possible. Then there are some services which are only in certain regions. in particular for AWS, it is um here it is. North Virginia has everything. Sometimes you'll have a service which isn't in a certain region. You need to be aware of that.

Set Up An EC2 

Type EC2 inside the search bar 
Click on to EC2
Go to network security 
Then security groups 
Click on create security group 
Security group name 
Description 
Inbound rules  
Type http
Source
Type anywhere IPv4
Add rule 
Type SSH
Source 
Type anywhere IPv4
Don't touch outbound rules 
Tags are optional 
Click on create security group
On the next screen under Inbound rules
Http SSH IPv4 80 20 security group id 
Is what you should see 
On the left side of the screen 
Click on instances 
Click on launch Instances 1

Launch An Instance 

Name and tags- put a name

Application OS images and instance type use the default 

Key pair 
Click on create new key pair
Key pair name- put a name 
Key pair type- use the default (RSA)
Private key file format-use the default (pem)
Click on create key pair 

Network settings

You need to select existing security group. 
Click on select existing security group 
Select the security group that you created 

User data- optional 

Go to the box under user data 

Copy and the file from Theo's script 

Click on launch Instance 

In the next screen 

You will see (success successfully initiated launch of instances-instance id)

This will be in green at top part of the screen 

If you don't see this go back and check your security group and EC2 settings 

Click on the Instance id 

Copy Public DNS (click on the two squares under Public DNS to copy)

Open a new tab

Type http://paste the Public DNS link and hit enter 

This create a homepage with AWS Instance Details

Create Lauch Template 

Go to the left side of the screen and click on instances 

Make sure the instance is box is checked that's under instances 

Click on the Actions pull down menu 

Go to image and templates 

Create template from Instance 

Lauch template name and description- put a name 

Template version description - put a name

Scroll down and check to see that all of the information is filled in like it's supposed to be

Then click on Create launch template 

Click on your instance 

Go to connect 

Connect 

EC2 Instance Connect 

Connection type- connect using a public IP 

Click on connect and now be connected with the instance 

Use 8.8.8.8 enter (this is Google DNS)

If you can ping 8.8.8.8 without a doubt you have internet 

Press control Z to stop pinging 

If you want to ping again just press the up arrow 

Terminate Your instance 

Check your instance 

Instance state- Terminate (delete) instance 

Launch Instance drop down menu 

Click on launch Instance from template 

Choose a launch template- make a selection 

Key pair and security group should not have to be touched 

Advanced details 
User data the script is already there 

You can go to the summary and launch more than one instance 

Click on launch Instance 

Go to EC2 and you'll see 2 instances running 

Launch templates 

Launch template ID 

Actions pull down menu to modify template

Modify Template (create new version)

Template version description- put a name 

Scroll down to Advanced details. The user name
should have the script already in the box.

You can modify the pubic URL and put a different one.

Click on Create template version 

In the Launch template details. 

Under Launch template version details.

Under version drop down menu. You a default version and other one. The original one and the new one.

On the same page go to actions drop down menu.

Launch Instance from template 

Choose a launch template- choose one of the two from the previous page 

Scroll down the page. Everything should be the same.

Summary (Number of instances) 1

Launch Instance 

Proceed without key pair 

Click on Launch Instance 

Instance summary

Go to Instances 

Copy Public DNS. Open a different tab.
Paste the link into the address bar 

You should see your AWS Instance Details 

You can make changes to your code in your template and then launch it from there. So you don't have to copy it every time. You can just modify your script or code every time.  

Just do a small incremental change. This is part of app development.

Teardown 

Go to Instances 

Check or choose all Instances listed and check other regions that you might Instances running in.

Go to Instances state drop down menu 

Terminate (delete) instance 

Terminate (delete)

Your launch templates are saved per region 